[Music]
just in case anyone missed this little
bit of news the universe is big shocking
I know
too big something for us to be the only
ones in it it's just a matter of knowing
where to look and scientists from NASA's
test program might have stumbled across
the next clue in this galactic scavenger
hunt the transiting exoplanet survey
satellite what a mouthful was launched
in April of 2015 orbit around nearby
stars
that's what transiting exoplanet means
in astronomer talk now one of these
stars is the comparatively small GJ 357
catchy name I know now nearby is a
relative term in space since GJ 357 is
about 31 light-years from Earth if we
try to go there today using modern
technology it would take more than six
hundred and sixty-six thousand years to
arrive talk about a long commute
yep that's too far away for humans to
ever realistically visit but not too far
to get a sense of what it looks like
thanks to Tess NASA astronomers
discovered a planet orbiting this
distant star being a creative Bunch
they named the new world GJ 357 bee bee
so then where's the aim well this planet
is believed to be about 22 percent
larger than Earth and 11 times closer to
its star than mercury is to the Sun
scientists don't know if the planet has
an atmosphere but they can say it's
definitely very hot how hot exactly well
it's hard to get an exact measurement
but the surface temperature is estimated
to be a boiling 490 degrees Fahrenheit
hot enough to melt in this planet can't
support life as we know it but
astronomers were still thrilled by its
discovery scientists have discovered
planets beyond our solar system before
but GJ 357 B is one of the closest to
Earth in fact it's one of the few whose
atmosphere can be studied by scientists
once they
determine if it has one as huge as this
discovery was however it was soon to be
overshadowed hidden beyond the
semi-molten glow of this hot earth as
astronomers called it were two more
planets one of them GJ 357 D is just far
enough away from the star to potentially
support life I would like to pause here
and address any astronomers that happen
to be watching we need to have a serious
talk about these planet names I get it
there are a lot of them to keep track of
but there must be an easier way to tell
them apart than interstellar license
plate numbers now I'm not saying every
planet needs a proper name I just think
that if 19th century explorers could
give one to every rocky lump off the
coast of Antarctica we can at least name
the important planets I just want a more
natural way to tell them apart is all
how's this I'll turn it over to the
audience what do you all think these new
planets should be called let me know in
the comments I guarantee it couldn't be
any worse than what we're calling them
now anyway if you're gonna start naming
some new worlds it would be good to know
a little bit more about them so back to
JG 350 7d as I said it's orbiting inside
the solar system's habitable zone warm
enough to support life but not so warm
that it ends up charbroiled it's about
20% closer to its star than Earth is to
the Sun but JG 357 is much smaller than
our neighborhood ball of gas and plasma
despite its proximity GJ 357 D receives
about the same amount of energy as Mars
NASA scientists estimate that the planet
has an average temperature of about
minus 64 degrees that's cool
comparable to the interior of Antarctica
well I wouldn't exactly want a vacation
there it's still technically survivable
for humans if the planet has a thick
enough atmosphere the actual temperature
could be much higher increasing the
likelihood that we
a one-day find life on its chilly
surface the second most notable feature
of this world of tundra is its size well
the nightmarishly hot GJ 357 B isn't
that much bigger than Earth its frigid
cousin is massive at more than six times
our home planets mass and potentially
twice its size it's no wonder
astronomers have dubbed it a super earth
that much bulk would also give GJ 357 D
a vastly higher gravity than is found on
earth this would no doubt have a
profound effect on any life that happens
to evolve there shaping it in ways we
can only imagine this high gravity also
creates a unique problem that any
intelligent life would eventually
encounter I wouldn't expect any alien
visitors for most of the same reasons
humans will probably never be visiting
JG 357 D for themselves it's hard to
adequately convey just how incredibly
distant this planet is not to mention
that any life that evolved there would
find earth just as inhospitable as their
world might seem to us especially if
they landed in Miami still if
intelligent life developed there's no
reason to believe it wouldn't sooner or
later turn its sensory organs to the
stars that's when the planet's gravity
becomes an obstacle it took humans a lot
of time effort and money to get our
first satellite into orbit with a
gravitational pull several times larger
than that of Earth the logistics of
space travel become genuinely daunting
the sheer weight of fuel needed to reach
escape velocity might be too much for
any spacecraft to carry scientists have
estimated that reaching the moon of a
planet ten times the size of Earth would
require almost 500,000 tons of fuel to
get off the ground even the most
generous estimates of GJ 357 DS size
don't place it as anywhere near
that big however at six times the mass
of Earth the planet's gravity would
still present an enormous challenge to
any extraterrestrial space program that
might be based there any space
exploration they attempted would most
likely have to be done remotely
centering around ground-based
observatories instead of spacecraft and
probes that has to be disappointing to
any UFO fans out there but don't give up
the truth is possibly still out there
now it is worth noting that astronomers
haven't yet been able to see any of
these planets directly the tests only
discover the massive and hot planet B
because of its silhouette passing in
front of the star this is how the
majority of exoplanets are found the
second way is through math astronomers
use very complex equations to model
things like a planet's orbit when
something seems off about a way a
celestial body is moving these equations
can explain why since C and D never
passed between Earth and GJ 357 during
the month when Tess was able to capture
images of the star we've only been able
to study them indirectly by combining
pictures obtained from terrestrial
observatories all over the world
astronomers were able to confirm Planet
d's existence by observing changes in
the light from GJ 357 when it dims that
means something like a planet is passing
in front of it the middle planet called
GJ 357 see just to make things confusing
didn't even give us that because of its
unusually tilted orbit this planet never
passes between Earth and its star at all
typical middle child am i right we know
it exists solely because of how its
gravity bends the light emitted by its
star this action results in faint
changes to the stars hue that
astronomers can use to estimate the size
and proximity of the planet having this
effect what little we do know is that
this planet is almost three-and-a-half
times the mass of Earth and one year
there lasts a little over nine days it's
also twice as close to GJ 357 as the
habitation candidate
and is estimated to have a temperature
of around 260 degrees Fahrenheit that's
not precisely melting ten levels of hot
but still enough to slow cook a decent
ham well NASA's tests mission deserves a
lot of the credit for finding these
planets they weren't entirely on their
own data from observatories in Hawaii
Chile and Spain all contributed to
confirming GJ 357 bees existence and
were vital in identifying the other two
planets this goes to show how some of
the greatest discoveries are only
possible when we work together maybe if
we work together long enough we'll find
someone else out there to talk to until
then we'll just have to keep looking and
maybe we can learn to talk to each other
here on earth a little nicer so any
thoughts on the planet names ABCD how
about Amos Billy Bob Chad and Dabney
whatever you come up with don't keep it
to yourself let me know in the comments
below if you learn something new today
then give this video a like and share it
with a friend
but don't go stepping out on hot planets
just yet
yikes we have over 2000 cool videos for
you to check out right here just click
on this left or right video and enjoy
and remember stay cool and stay on the
bright side of life